## README file for the "Getting and Cleaning Data" Programming Assignment


This week's programming assignment is described below:

> You should create one R script called `run_analysis.R` that does the following.

> *   Merges the training and the test sets to create one data set (`TASK 1`)
*	Extracts only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement (`TASK 2`)
*	Uses descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set (`TASK 3`)
*	Appropriately labels the data set with descriptive variable names (`TASK 4`)
*   From the data set in step 4, creates a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject (`TASK 5`)

> Good luck!

The `run_analysis.R` script in this repo accomplishes all of these tasks and writes a final tidy data set to the user's Desktop that includes the average of each variable of interest (all of the mean and std variables in the original dataset)for each SUBJECT and ACTIVITY.

The script first sets the `R` working directory to the directory containing the downloaded Samsung data files.

To accomplish `TASK 1` and `TASK 4`, the script reads in the `features` file and the `subject`, `X`, and `y` files in the each of the `train` and `test` folders.

* The `subject` file contains a vector of the subject of each observation
* The `y` file contains a vector of the activity category (as an indexed code) for each observation
* The `X` file contains the raw data for 561 variables generated by Samsung Galaxy phone accelerometers

These files are read in and merged and a new dataframe constructed that joins the full set of `train` and `test` data, adds descriptive variable names to the columns, and adds a new column of data that indicates whether the observation came from the `train` or `test` data set.

To accomplish `TASK 2`, the script uses the `plyr` package and regular expressions to winnow the number of variables/columns being looked at down to only that that contain the text "mean()" and "std()" in the variable name.

To accomplish `TASK 3`, the script reads in the `activity_levels` file and merges this with the dataset that is the result of `TASK 2`. This creates the first tidy data set that is used to accomplish the last step in the assignment.

Finally, to accomplish `TASK 5`, the script uses the `aggregate` function to find the average of each variable of interest for each SUBJECT and ACTIVITY and then outputs this as a text file using `write.table`.
